- ## #frameworkCompliance
##frameworkCompliance #Architectural #Quality #Development #Quality #Value #Creation #Value #Drivers #ValueBased #Software #Engineering #Software #Engineering 
App Clone and Similar App Detection. TPL is a key factor that impacts detection accuracy, thus almost all approaches have attempted to eliminate the impact of libraries. For example, Centroid [4] uses a white-list based approach to filter TPLs, WuKong [15] uses a clustering-based approach to filter TPLs. The result of CLANDroid [8] suggested significant accuracy difference when TPLs are excluded. • Abnormal Behavior Analysis. CHABADA [5] detects inconsistencies between app description and app func- tionalities. Their results suggested that TPLs are one of the key factors that lead to outlier apps. WHYPer [12] analyzes the inconsistencies between app description and requested permissions. TPLs should be one of the main reasons that lead to the huge gap between app description and requested permissions, because TPLs account for a large portion of permission uses in mobile apps [1]. • Empirical Studies. Hassan et al. [13], [11] have con- ducted empirical studies on TPLs, including analyzing the relationship between TPLs and app quality, as well 2017 IEEE/ACM 39th IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering Companion DOI 10.1109/ICSE-C.2017.161 978-1-5386-1589-8/17 $31.00 © 2017 IEEE 517 519 515as framework reuse analysis in Android apps. Other work [7] also demonstrated the importance of TPLs in code reuse analysis of mobile apps. • Security and Privacy Analysis. It is important to separate TPLs from app custom code and analyze whether the sensitive behaviors are introduced by libraries or custom code. LIBSCOUR [3] quantified the security impact of TPLs on the Android ecosystem. DroidAPIMiner [2] demonstrated that TPLs could greatly affect the detection results of API feature based malware detection. Lin et al. [6] proposed to infer the purpose of permission use by analyzing sensitive data used in TPLs. Another line of research is focused on the privilege separation for mobile apps and TPLs [9].

