- ## General
#General #Feature #Value #ValueBased #Software #Engineering #Software #Engineering 
While the ISO definition  might suffice in a value-neutral setting, we must extend the scope considerably to  address value considerations effectively. Three shortcomings of this definition are  remarkable from a value-oriented perspective.  First is its exclusion of economics, management science, cognitive sciences,  and humanities from the body of knowledge required to create successful software  systems. Value-based software engineering however cannot ignore this body of  knowledge because it considers software development as a purposeful activity car- ried out by people for people.  The second shortcoming of the ISO definition is its delimitation of software  development by technical activities such as design, implementation, and testing.  VBSE in contrast must also consider, as part of the software engineering lifecycle,  management-oriented activities – such as business case development, project  evaluation, project planning, process selection, project management, risk man- agement, process measurement, and monitoring – that have often been considered  peripheral. VBSE as such is a multifaceted, multidisciplinary approach that covers  all practices, activities, and phases involved in software development, addressing a  wide variety of decisions about technical issues, business models, software devel- opment processes, software products and services, and related management prac- tices. The third shortcoming of the ISO definition is its failure to explicitly recognize  the ultimate goal: ensuring that software systems continue to meet and adapt to  evolving human and organizational needs to create value. VBSE must put these  needs foremost. According to VBSE, it is not enough, or at times not even critical,  for software projects to merely meet unilaterally preset schedule, budget, process,  and quality objectives. Rather, it is necessary that the resulting products and ser- vices persist to increase the wealth of the stakeholders and optimize other relevant  value objectives of these projects.

