- ## Architecture
#Architecture #Validation #Software #Architecture 
On-the-fly Verification. Instead of constructing the state space entirely be- fore checking correctness requirements (which may fail because of memory shortage), on-the-fly verification explores the state space incrementally, in a demand-driven way; this allows to detect errors in complex systems without constructing their whole state space explicitly. An open platform for devel- oping generic on-the-fly verification tools is provided by the Open/Cæsar environment [7] of Cadp, together with various on-the-fly verification tools (guided simulation, searching of execution sequences, model checking, etc.). Partial Order Reduction. Due to presence of independent components which evolve in parallel and do not synchronize directly, the state space of a par- allel system often contains redundant interleavings of actions, which can be eliminated by applying partial order reductions [24]. A form of partial order reduction useful in the context of process algebras is τ -confluence, for which several tools are already available [23]. Compositional Verification. Another way to avoid the explicit construction of the state space is by using abstraction and equivalence. Compositional verification consists in building the state spaces of the individual system’s components, hiding the irrelevant actions (which denote internal activity), minimising the resulting state spaces according to an appropriate equivalence relation, and recomposing them in order to obtain the state space of the whole system. The Svl environment [8] of Cadp provides an efficient and versatile framework for describing compositional verification scenarios.Model Checking for Software Architectures 223 Sufficient Locality Conditions. For specific correctness requirements (e.g., deadlock freedom), there exist sufficient conditions (e.g., acyclic intercon- nection topology) ensuring the satisfaction of the requirement on the whole system by checking it locally on each component of the system [4]. In this way state explosion is avoided, since only the state spaces of the individ- ual components need to be constructed. An interesting issue concerns the extension of these results for more elaborate correctness requirements.

